Exercises

1. What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange"

string

42

integer

09/02/1945

string

98.7

float

$15.99

float

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

Text files should be used when a document needs to be read by humans, databases should be used for storing larger amounts of data that can be quickly read and modified 

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

SQL is declarative, not procedural. You define what is to be searched, and the database engine decides the method to implement in order to do so

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

Databases are organized into tables consisting of columns and rows

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value. Every row contains an entry's data, and each column defines what the data represents.

table: structure holding a data collection 
row: collection of data on a unit
column: defines what the data represents
value: data contained in a given cell of a table

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.

string, float, object

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

  a) this query selects the dates with corresponding amounts from the payment column
  b) this query selects payment where the amount is over $500
  c) this query selects payments from payent table where the payee is Mega Foods

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

  a) The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

     SELECT email, signup
     FROM users
     WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

     email                         signup
     datad@comcast.net,            2008-01-20

  b) The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

     SELECT userid
     FROM users
     WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

     userid
     1

  c) All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

     SELECT *
     FROM users
     WHERE userid = 4;

     userid  name              email               signup
     4       Brandy Boolean    bboolean@nasa.gov   1999-10-15


